# RETACO-GROUP-OF-COMPANIES-PERFORMANCE-ANALYSIS-REPORT-FOR-THE-YEAR-2019
This project was designed to analyze the general performance of the different category of goods sold by the company, the sales and payment channel, regional performance, sales Persons and the type of customer to identify key areas that needs improvements and subsequently make data driven decisions. 
INTRODUCTION

Objective of the Project: This project is designed to analyze the general performance of the different category of goods sold by the firm located in different cities, the shipping cities used to ship the goods as well as the performance of different customers and sales Persons in different cities in order to identify key areas that needs improvements and subsequently make data driven decisions.

Problem Being Addressed: This project is trying to identify lapses in any of the following: product category, product category quantity sold, Salespersons, sales and payment channel and type of Customers which if addressed will lead to improvement in revenue generation.

This project is also trying to identify areas with exceptional performance and explore measures to sustain such performance in subsequent months/years.

Key Datasets and Methodologies: The dataset used is the order details. The
methodology employed is the use of pivot tables, line charts, bar charts, column chart and pie charts to analyze the data to identify trends and hidden patterns.

STORY OF DATA

Data Source: The data is from the internal company database.
Data Collection Process: This data was generated through automated scripts.
Data Structure: The data contains 372 rows with each representing a distinct
transaction. And 26 columns representing order ID, order date, customer ID, customer name, address, city, state, postal code Country/Region, Salesperson, ship date, shipper name, ship address, ship city, ship state, ship postal code, ship country, payment type, product name, category, unit price, quantity, revenue, and shipping fee.

Important Features and Their Significance:
✓ Product category: this variable will help us to identify and separate the different products based on their category and ultimately analyze how each category is performing.
✓ Order date: this variable will help us to identify and categorize a timeline in order to establish a trend.
✓ Customer name, address, state, country and region: these variables will
collectively help us to identify and classify the customers into different locations.
✓ Ship country, ship city, ship state, ship postal code : these variables will
collectively help us to identify and categorize the shipping details into distinct locations.
✓ Product name: this variable will help us to identify and categorize the different products.
✓ Payment type: this variable will help us to separate the different payment
channels.
✓ Revenue: this variable will help us to perform all computations and analysis such as total revenue per salesperson, total revenue per region, total revenue per state, total revenue per city, total revenue per payment type, and other analysis requiring revenue.
✓ Salesperson: this variable will help us to identify and analyze all activities for each salesperson such as total revenue generated by the salesperson.

Data Limitations or Biases
There were some few blank cells within the data.

DATA SPLITTING AND PREPROCESSING

Data Cleaning: The data was cleaned by removing duplicates, identifying and removing blanks, and ensuring that no inconsistencies are observed.

Data Transformations: No data transformations were performed.
Data Splitting: The data was splitted into dependent and independent variables. The
dependent variables are Oder ID, Oder Date, Customer ID, Zip/ Postal Code, Shipping
Date, Ship Zip/ Postal Code, Unit Price, Quantity, Revenue, and Shipping Fee.
While the independent variables are Customer Name, Address, City, State,
Country/Region, Sales Person, Region, Shipper Name, Ship Name, Ship Country/Region, Ship Address, Ship City,Ship Country/Region, Payment Type, Product Name, and Category.

Industry Context: The data is from sales industry and it will help us understand the dynamics of analyzing sales which will help sharpen our prescriptive and predictive analytical skills.
Stakeholders: The chief executives.

Value to the Industry: This analysis will help to identify areas in the business that are
lagging for the stakeholders to explore measures for improvements and increased revenue generation.
This analysis will also help to identify areas where the business is doing well for the stakeholders to explore measures to sustain such and maintain/ improve revenue.

PRE-ANALYSIS

Key trends: By merely glancing through the data, it appears as though Company D is bringing in more revenue. Secondly, credit card payments appears to be the preferred payment method.
Potential Correlations: there is a two day gap between the order date and the shipping
date. Beverages appears to incur a higher shipping fee than other product category.

IN-ANALYSIS

Unconfirmed Insights:
1. Among the salesperson Jan performed least for the year while Nancy was the top performing salesperson for the year. Company D performed super well for the Year and the month with the highest sales is December while February had the lowest sales.
2. The Month with the highest sales is December with a revenue of $66,642.78 while the Month with the least sales is February with a revenue of $$19,955.50.
3. The best Region is the North with a total Revenue of $$141,660.34 while the least performing Region is the West with a total Revenue of $91,251.98.
4. The best product for the year is Beverages, grossing a revenue of $110,577.11
5. 7. New York Tops the Chart on Revenue generated on sales and for the Ship Cities.

6. Transactions between 0–1,000 accounts for the most preferred transactions with about 218 of such transactions while 7–8000 occurred just once.
7. The top ten customers collectively grossed revenue of $374,1544.16.with
company D alone contributing $67,180.50 of the gross revenue.

Analysis Techniques Used in Excel:
Pivot Tables were used to analyze the data in order to generate meaningful visual
insights.
Other features used are:

Grouping- this was used to group the dates from days to Months
Filtering- this was used to filter out the top 10 customers as well as the top 5 cities in order to narrow our scope.
Sorting- this was used to arrange data from the highest to the lowest or vice versa.

POST-ANALYSIS AND INSIGHTS

Key Findings:
1. Nancy closed as the best salesperson for the year with a revenue of $104,242.34
while Jan was the least performer for the year closing at $16,350.50.
2. During the Year, the month with the highest sales is December at $ 66,642.78 while February had the lowest sales closing at $19,955.5.
3. The North closed as the best Region with a total Revenue of $$141,660.34 while the least performing Region is the West with a total Revenue of $91,251.98.
4. The best product for the year is Beverages, grossing a revenue of $110,577.11
5. New York Tops the Chart on Revenue generated on sales and for the Ship Cities.
6. Transactions between 0–1,000 account for the most preferred transactions with
about 218 of such transactions while 7–8000 occurred just once.
7. The top ten customers collectively grossed revenue of $374,1544.16.with company D alone contributing $67,180.50 of the gross revenue.

Comparison with Initial Findings:
Nancys dominance at the end of the year was a bit suprising considering Andrew was
the leading Salesperson in Jan, February and the first quarter with Nancy Trailing
behing. The second half of the year appears to be the defining moment for Nancy.
RECOMMENDATIONS AND OBSERVATIONS

Actionable Insights

I recommend that Jan be retrenched or sent over for training on sales and customer
retention while Nancy be rewarded for outstanding performance. I also recommend that
all sales activities performed in December be implemented in February and other
months with low sales.
I recommend that the activities and measures implemented in December be replicated
for Months with low sales turn out.
I recommend that the sales persons resident in the Northern Region be transferred to
the West and tasked with the responsibility of improving the Western Region.

I recommend that the stakeholders ensure that all inventory staff keep an eye on the
beverages to ensure that it does not get depleted at any time
We can set up a Sub HQ at New York to ensure more customers gets interested in
lower shipping fee, attracting more customers and improving revenue.
Customers should be encouraged to perform larger transactions as this will improve
revenue generation.
Considering the total revenue of $435,036.16 of which $374,154.16 is coming from the
top ten customers, I therefore recommend that more customers be introduced to help
sustain the business on the long run while the current customers are retained. In
addition company D as well as other top performing companies should be closely
monitored to ensure consistent growth.

Optimizations or Business Decisions:

More New customers should be introduced as thus will help generate more revenue in
the coming year.
A sales tracking system should be introduced to help salespersons track and monitor
their daily, weekly and monthly sales figures, this will help keep the salespersons more
focused all year round.
Promotional activities should be conducted during periods with poor sales.
Beverages should be bonded with some other least selling products (e.g in order to buy
beverages you must also buy pasta ) to ensure these other products are sold.
Periodic trainings should be performed for the salespersons to ensure improvement.
Time delay between order processing and shipping should be minimized to help ensure
swift supply.

Unexpected Outcomes:

None.

CONCLUSION

Key Learnings:
8. Nancy closed as the best salesperson for the year with a revenue of $104,242.34
while Jan was the least performer for the year, closing at $16,350.50.
9. During the Year, the month with the highest sales is December at $ 66,642.78 while
February had the lowest sales closing at $19,955.5.
10.The North closed as the best Region with a total Revenue of $$141,660.34 while
the least performing Region is the West with a total Revenue of $91,251.98.
11.The best product for the year is Beverages, grossing a revenue of $110,577.11
12.New York Tops the Chart on Revenue generated on sales and for the Ship Cities.
13.Transactions between 0–1,000 account for the most preferred transactions with
about 218 of such transactions while 7–8000 occurred just once.
14.The top ten customers collectively grossed revenue of $374,1544.16.with company
D alone contributing $67,180.50 of the gross revenue.

Limitations:

The data does not put into account external factors such as competitor activities,
seasonal trends, and internal factors such as product availability, logistics delays, price
increments and understaffing, etc. that may affect revenue during the year.

Future Research

Additional research can be conducted on the shipping cost for each product category in
relation to the revenue generated from that product category. This will give an insight
into product categories where the company is spending high on shipping compared to
the revenue it is getting from that product category.
